Work out put some data in our application and it would be nice.
Child put it in a structured way in a table maybe.
Well there is this data table component and this is an extremely powerful component which is still easy
to use.
But behind the scenes it does a lot of awesome stuff.
Let's have a look if we have a look at the preview here.
You see it's a nicely styled table here.
And the cool thing is we can add features like page anation sorting and filtering to the table.
For example here filter we can add a type hydro gene or hydro and it automated the.
This table we're sorting.
We just click on a header here and it sorts the elements in the table for us page anation of course.
Well we can simply define how many items should be on a given page and then switch through them.
We'll have a look at all these features and implement such a data table to manage our finished or canceled
exercises.
Now for that how do we actually implement the data table.
Well let's have a look at their source code.
It looks complex but if you look closely it actually repeats the same code all the time.
We have a rapping math table component which we and this is a core thing of this component which we
connect to some data source.
More about this in a second.
And then we get this energy container element which you can think off as the invisible grouping mechanism
which simply groups together a hetero's cell and then a regular cell to tell angular which element or
which value to output in which column.
So in the headers cell we have the title of the header of the column and then here we got the value
of a single row of this column and Angola will automatically loop through all the values in the data
source and repeat this pattern where we simply define how each column should look like for all the rows
it has and our data source it is instructed to do so with the last two lines here.
This tells it for all the columns we to find up your output.
I had a row and repeat as many rows data rows as needed.
So here with the find the columns and at the bottom we define to use the had a row and then output as
many value rows as needed.
This is what's inside of that table in the head.
Now let's implement it.
So let's go back to our code and in past training so the template get rid of that all add math table.
So this component which wraps the entire table nice sat dead we would connect us to some data source.
This is bound by a property binding and bind it to a property named datasource which I don't have yet
but which I will add before I added Let's actually define the blueprints for the columns.
Remember we use the energy container which is the default angular component which we can use to group
things essentially here on Engy container we need to assign or add a directive.
Matt Colomb death for a material column definition does tells angler's material or the material table
to consider all containers that have this directive and we'd give each column a clearly identified identifier
like date for example the date when we finished the exercise or cancel it.
Now we want to define a column here.
Keep that in mind.
We define a column a column has a header cell.
So the title and a values cell at the value of cells are repeated for all the values as I mentioned
the header cells to find the Mad Hatter cell component here on this component.
We add structural that are effective indicated by the star which is called Matt header cell death for
header's cell definition.
You don't need to assign a value here to simply as used by Metts table.
Internally and then you simply define the title of that header like date.
Now let's define a value yourself for the column with map cell and then a structural directive which
is the math cell death directive for materials cell definition.
And here we have to assign that element.
Now this clearly looks strange.
This simply gives us access to a element property which will be passed to us by a material table component
so that we can actually output the value we get through stringin appellation here.
So we can access element date and I know that there will be a date property because our data source
will later be our exercises array and each exercise has a date property.
So back to the template element date and year.
I will also add the date pipe to a built in pipe shipping with angular.
So this is our first column.
We already got a bunch of arrows here because we need to unlock this component to included in our bundle
so the material module I will add to import the mat table module and it will add it to both imports
and then also of course exports in the material module with that we can go back to the past trading's
component.
And now are just gone just to data sources and found.
But that makes sense.
Now we have more than one color.
So let's repeat this pattern here.
We also want to have a column for the name of the exercise.
So the title will be name here.
We still get access to the element but then we should be data up there by the way.
But then here we X-ists element name and I no longer need the pipe here.
Now we have more columns so let's add the number column definition here for the calories.
Maybe Here I'll give it a title of calories.
This is always the human readable title here of course.
And then I'm going to use element calories here.
Now the calories of the ship be formatted with the number pi.
This will output them in a nicely styled way.
Now there's one more column I want to add for sure and that is the duration.
So here duration title should be duration.
And I'm going to Xs element duration here.
I'll also use the number of pipe here because I want to format this nicely as a number two.
And finally maybe this state.
So here it's for the state.
Whoever does was cancelled or not here will output element state.
I don't need a pipe here.
Now with that we get all the columns you want to use.
Now we need to instruct material table to do something.
First of all I'll say hey I want to have a header so I'll add Matt header row here.
There we also have to assign a structural directive the Matt header row Rodanthe and no important I
set this to display columns.
Before I explain what's up with that let's also add the instruction to render all the rows we do this
by adding match row and assigning a Navarrete structural directive which of course is just as the structural
directives coming from material angular material.
So here it's the math road death structural directive where I'm simply saying hey how should the Rose
be rendered a Judas by setting lache row and then finding the columns for which I want to render rows
and this should be my displayed columns.
Now does Holsten text can look rather strange and in the end you can just memorize it or look it up
in the documentation.
What's happening is really just that we're rendering the headers so the table titles and then all the
rows for all the values we got this Collin's displayed.
Cullens thing is important.
We're connecting the map table to a data source but with display columns we can control which of our
defined columns we actually want to show.
This allows us to dynamically change as if we wanted to.
So we need to do two things configure displayed columns and data source.
So in the past training component typescript file I will add properties for both.
I'll add my displayed Calamus property.
This has to be an array of strings and the names in there have to match the names you assigned here
with Matt column death on your energy container.
So if you got a date name and calories here you have to match that in disarray to to find which columns
should be rendered.
So you don't want to render them all date.
Name duration calories and you also defined your order here.
By the way calorie is and state a simple thing you can easily switch the order by switching the order
in this array.
That is why we bind to displayed columns.
I also need to define my data source so at data source property and this will be a value which I have
to instantiate based on something I import from angular material.
I have to instantiate a new mapped table data source you import this from any angular material up your
math table data source.
And this is simply an object which allows material table to connect to.
It's a generic object where you define which kind of data you're passing in.
For us it's going to be an exercise.
So we have to import exercise from our exercise model.
So import exercise from.
And now we go up a level to the exercise model file.
Now we're connecting an exercise to the math table data source and now correctly you would say don't
we use an array of exercises.
Yes we do but since we're working with a table max table data source always expects to get an array
of whichever type you are passing here.
So if you are passing an array of exercises just define exercise exercises to type not exercise like
this.
Not an array of exercises it'll automatically assume this.
Now with this we have our data source and now that should already be all we need to render our past
exercise as well.
Although of course we need to populate the data source and for this we need the training service because
this is where our data lives.
So all injected into this component with the help of the constructor of course training services a property
I create of type trading service make sure to add the import to the training service file.
And then in Engy on it I will set this data source and then there's a data property equal to this training
service and then there all our exercises.
Now for that I'll quickly add a helper method because we don't have such a method yet.
Completed or canceled exercises maybe.
And it will simply return this EXOR sizes and return slice to get a new copy.
Though it doesn't really matter here.
Now back in past trainings all connected to this training service get completed or canceled exercises
and this returns an array of exercises and as you see it doesn't complain because they expect to get
an array of whichever type you set up here.
Now if we save this and we go back to our application we quickly log in here.
Let's start a new exercise and let's go with it.
And under past exercises we now see this exercise as you see we only get a fraction of the duration
which we actually had if we completed the exercise.
Let's see the opposite.
By completing some Burpy last year and will quickly fast forward until this is done.
And we're almost done so let's have a look at past exercises.
Here we got complete herpes 60 seconds and cancell crunches.
Now one thing I think that's going wrong is in the training service.
We of course want to store this running exercises calories not duration multiplied with their progress
but that is all.
Our table is working.
Let's see how we can tweak it.